Welcome to walking and flying around your model in this video.
You see how our scene looks and feels by walking around it using the fly and walk mode.
Show you how to see the scene in unity.
Understand that I am only using unity to keep the iterations quick and simple at this early stage.
And that unity is optional.
Anything external to blend that we do.
You can watch to see how it works and how it is coming across.
You can see the impact of what's going on.
You'll gain a better understanding of external programs when doing this and Occasionally you may want
to work with external programs whether it be art packages or other 3D modelling packages.
Now join in if you have unity installed and are interested in learning more about this particular prototyping
method.
So let's hop straight on over in a blender.
Right now that we're back in our church in the moment we've been manipulating this by simply using the
mouse scrolling up and down holding down shift and panning across.
But that has its limitations.
For example it's very easy as we've all experienced already to run out as zoom when you can't go any
further and you have to refocus what you're looking at and we can get around that by hitting shift in
F that enables flight mode and we can start using the W A S and deed keys.
If you've ever played any first person shooters to move around our scene so we can strafe like panning
out with a Andy w moves forward and s moves back.
Now this looks like a painfully slow speed that we're moving at at the moment.
But you can speed that up with your scroll wheel or page up page down and we can see that as I am on
a macheath SOME scrolling down I can pick up speed and whiz around the model.
Of course we've got my little mannequin Hindi here for scale it helps to really set the scene and I
can see that walking around I can adjust this so I get a much better feel and well that's looking pretty
good.
Okay what else can we do here where we can turn gravity on and off by hitting the tab key which enables
us to walk on the surface of our model.
And when you hit the spot.
Oh there we go.
I've fallen away so that's why one of the reasons why you wouldn't necessarily want to.
But gravity.
I just use the scroll to back up here.
But wait a minute there's a quicker way of a whizzing about.
See that little cross hair in the middle.
Well if I put that on a particular part of my model and then press the space bar we what hop to that
part of the model so it's very easy to quickly hop around if I target my mannequin and go bang straight
there.
Very powerful for skipping around large models and we can see there are further controls on the bottom
of the screen.
Now when you come out of our flying mode it with the right mouse button it goes back to the previous.
Viewpoint before you started flying around.
Now you may of course want to fly into your model and to a particular place in the model to have a look
at it and keep that we can do that with the left mouse button enter as well.
And there we go.
We've got that viewpoint.
It's incredibly powerful for moving about a model especially one that's getting quite large and potentially
quite complex.
And of course we can hit shift in F again and pressed space to move to the tower and go up to the top
of a tower and look down a lord over everybody beneath us.
Brilliant.
Okay so I don't want this viewpoint so I'm going to right click to go back to my previous one which
is a much better viewpoint of the rest of the church and the Ancients way over there.
And let's go have a look at what this looks like in an external package.
I'm going to be using unity for this example.
Now a quick side note here.
Unity does support opening up blend files.
How ever what it's really doing is in the background it's opening up a blender is exporting the model
as an F X and then and only then is it opening it up.
So it's quite a clean way of doing it.
But if your model starts to get complex that can really bog down unity and I've had it spend at 15 to
20 minutes trying to open up every time and that's just unmannered manageable.
We can't wait minutes and minutes and minutes just to open up a program that's there's nothing lean
about that.
So what I'm going to do in this case and one of the other things to make sure that we do is if we ever
export our model at the moment if we just export as an FBI X we'll get all of the parts as well.
So we turned on the second layer here as well we'll end up with whatever we get these other additional
parts and the extra manequin they're coming across as well.
So we need to make sure that we're only exporting the bits that we want to export so we can select individual
items or the entire lot.
In this case I'm going to import the entire lot and walk around it.
Although you may wish to reconstruct this in an external package as well in which case you just export
the parts and then give full control to the level designer or whoever to put all the parts together
how they deem fit.
Because obviously if I give someone a big model like this it can be quite annoying to have to deconstruct
it first to reconstruct it how you like but this is a great example about how all those pieces fit together
a bit like when you buy some Lego you get a picture of what you should be making and then a quiz you
ignore that and go and make some other coarse stuff.
So now what we can do is just make sure that the things we want selected are the ones that we're going
to export some of the totally ignore the parts bits but select all of the other empties.
But going to select these empties whilst holding down control so it selects all of the meshes underneath
as well.
So I'm going to want to select that.
And then I'm going to hold down Shift.
Add to that selection and select the other bits in our scene some skin to go down here and select those.
I don't need the lampl camera.
They are completely irrelevant.
Whenever I'm exporting cars they are controlled and have settings really only in blender.
So now that I've done that I can go to file an export and go to FBI X. That's a standard one for most
packages if you're doing 3D printers then it'll be S T L as a standard one.
And obviously there are some other ones that you'll notice here if you're working with Sketchup colada
is the one it supports doesn't support sbx and this of course natively supports 3D.
S Max as well.
Someone to click on FP X and it's almost ready to save you can see I've already saved it in the past
but one of the important things here and pretty much all we need to do at this moment is put a tick
in the selected objects box and then we know when we export in a few seconds time will only get those
selected object and not everything that's in our scene.
Now we're going to go ahead and click on export now a word of warning.
It doesn't ask you Are you sure if you want to overwrite it will just overwrite the file.
It's got the same file name or you've accidentally clicked on something else.
So do bear that in mind.
There is no going back now.
I've overwritten that file that was No.
Are you sure which is odd.
Was so used to.
Are you sure as an undoing.
And the computer guiding us along but it doesn't do that.
So let's go have a look at how this opens up over in unity.
Okay so I have set up my scene over in unity of imported the Gothic church and I've imported some standard
stuff so I can have the first person androzani going to go ahead and hit play and then I should be able
to walk around my scene.
So going to make this bigger for your you guys area go and this gives a much better impression of the
actual scene as we walk around it.
Hello mannikin.
Now these yellow patches here don't worry about those are just reflecting the ground man.
It's directly parallel with the ground it's going to do see is happening there and to some extent under
the arches.
I don't have an oar I've actually walked to have a door that was very good.
I was going to say I dont have any colliders So while I do on the floor so I dont fall through by there
on the walls or anything like that at the moment so I can go in and out of the model.
This is really good for seeing how its going to work so I can already see some problems and its good
that I can see problems at the moment.
Big cars.
Well I can fix them sooner rather than later.
And here we see this one's working and that's because it's a solid model so I've also identified at
this point that when I moved these into the scene and indeed all of these volts the ceiling pieces the
modifier the solidify modifier did not link as well so I'll need to set that up again on them all.
I can also see around here whereas this bit here it looks like there's a piece misaligned idea bad construction
there.
Or is it a secret panel to a secret area of the church.
Who knows but we can start to see here that this this is feeling right it's feeling pretty epic it's
feeling big is not feeling too big.
This is a one point six meter mannequin.
It's actually a very handsome chap it's modelled on myself hergé.
So this is great because we get to experience how it is looking and how it feels.
By just walking around it now obviously because these are made out of modular parts.
The game designer or yourself if you're wearing multiple hats can now start filling about with the layout
inside the game engine or wherever else you're working with straightaway.
Okay quick challenge for you guys.
I'd like you to explore your model move around your model and get fit I have a better feel for the space
that you are creating.
Remember to make any alterations immediately working lean and walk around again and test those alterations.
Now optional for those with unity or another game engine or another external package import your model
and walk around it or fly around it there too.
If the airport has problems remember that is a good thing.
Were being lean about this and taking it to one of the N stages that we want very quickly to make sure
that there aren't any glaring problems so balls a video now give that a go.
I've already identified some problems with my model so I'm going to go and fix that.
But I will see you guys in the next lecture.